Let us write a class in C++ we will learn how to write a class and we will learn all the things in detail
about the class.
How do you define a class how to create objects and how to use objects we learn on these things.
So let us start.
See this is a four sided figure.
This is also a  four sided figure.
And even this is a four sided figure.
So what these are these are nothing but rectangles.
This is example one, example 2.
Example 3.
This is an example of a rectangle example.
All of these are examples of the rectangle.
So we say that these are the objects of type rectangle instances of type rectangle.
Each instance is an object of class rectangle.
So can we define a class rectangle in C++.
Yes.
So what are the properties or attributes of a rectangle every rectangle will have its length and breadth
so this is length and breadth, were the l is smaller here.
This is length and breadth, now  what are the operations that you can perform on this rectangle
So we can calculate area,
Calculations are there see length and breadth is not calculation area is calculation.
So if we say its a function, we can find its perimeter.
And so on.
So these are the important operations.
So let us define a class for rectangle.
So I'll start writing a class.
Class rectangle.
What are its properties.
Length and breadth are the properties, attributes.
So we make them as data members, data members.
I will take them off type Integer only, integer length is one data member., breadth
But it's better to write in next line integer breadth.
These are two data members.
These are the two functions I can define them here, so one function name is area.
It will cal. area and it will return integer type value that is area.
how To calculate, return
length into breadth.
This is a area function then for perimeter.
I will write a function return 2 X length X breadth that's it.
I'll close this class, so this is the opening bracket of a class and this is the closing bracket and after the closing
bracket, semicolon is mandatory.
We should give semocolon.
So here is a class for rectangle.
Having 2 data members and area and perimeter and all. then let us see
how to use this class, so for this
I will write down Main function and use it.
So here I write.
Main function here is a main function void Main I'm writing.
You can write.
Void main or int Main.
Depends on the compilers, I'm creating object of rectangle, rectangle of r1 and r2
so I have created two objects of type rectangle this is it the method of creating a object rectangle.
r1 and r2. we observed 2 things here.
First one I am creating variables, r1 and r2 are variables of what type rectangle, see we declared variables of some
data type Integer float double character like this, rectangle.
Is it a data type.
Yes we have defined our own data type.
So this class is used for defining our own data type that is usually define data type.
So yes class are used for defining user defined data type so that you can declare the variables of
that type.
So r1 and r2 are rectangle type.
So these variables we call them as objects.
Now second thing when we declare any variable inside a function the variable will occupy memory inside
Stack.
Yes we know that then these variables are also occupying memory inside the stack.
How much memory they are occupying.
So r1 this is occupying how many bytes.
Let us look at here.
what are the data members it is having length, how many bytes see as part of our discussion we are saying
length int  is 2 bytes but the compiler that we are using that it is taking 4 bytes.
Just remember this for my explanation it is easy.
If I take two bytes so I can show you many things in detail so this is 2 bytes and this also two
bytes, functions are also there,  no functions will not occupy any memory space functions will not occupy
any memory space only 2 data members so.
So what is the size of this class.
This is 4 bytes so if you create variable of this type class. they will take 4 byte.
So yes this rectangle, r1 will take 4 bytes and 2 bytes for length and two bytes for Breadth, R2 will
also take 2 bytes.
This is length and this is Breadth, that's it.
Two variables are created inside the stack.
For variables will consume memory four bytes each.
But class will not consume, this is just the size of a class.
It is just like this is the plan of a house area of houses.
Suppose a hundred yards.
So this is a blueprint on paper.
So what is the size of the house.
Hundred yard.
So this paper will not occupy space of hundred yards.
But when you construct a house as per this plan it will occupy hundred yards.
So yes this we are creating a house constructing a house.
This is taking a hundred yards and this is taking hundred yards.
So imagine like this OK.
Creation of an object is over.
No.
Can I use this length and breadth.
Yes.
How to access.
I should say r1 length
I want to make it as 10 and  breadth as five so I will say r1. length.
Ten, r1.breadth assign .
5 Yes.
For accessing the members of this class.
We have to use dot operators dot operators.
So using dot operators you can access the members.
Now one problem I cannot access this length and breadth. reason is
Whatever you write inside the class by default it becomes private.
remember this point by default it becomes private so I should write everything under public, public colon
after this what all written is public, now I can access, unless I say public I cannot
access them because by default they are private.
See one thing you observe here I'm showing you the things when required.
So I am taking them in some sequence initially also I would have done public and said that this is
compulsary.
I did not do that first I tried to access and said it is not allowed.
Then you can understand the reason why I should write public there.
So most of the topics are like this only, I will  be covered in this fashion only.
OK so following it bit by bit is more important.
In this way I guess you can easily memorize the things or understand the things so follow next.
I had access length and breadth.
OK this length is 10 and this breadth is 5.
same way I can do it for r2 also
its length and breadth I can set them, now I want to know area, cout
r1.area
So who's area will be calculated r1's area that is 10 X 5  50 will appear on the screen so this
area will be calculated.
where is area here in the diagram we are not showing it.
Yes we don't show because functions will not occupy any memory but functions will be there along with
every object.
when you call r1.area whose area will be called  thi r1's area will be called so I will extend this one
then say this is having its own area function and own perimeter function then what about this.
This is also having its own area function and its own perimeter function.
They both are having their own area and  perimeter function so I just extend this box and say
these are having functions.
Also though they will not occupy memory separately for these each object but I am showing them because they are
available for each object.
So now who's area is calculated? r1's area is calculated
Now I will access this r2 also.
So here I will write r2.length assign 15 so I'm making this length as
15.
There is no space, so I will continue in the same line r2.breadth assigned ten.
So I will set this breadth as 10. now I will say cout r2.area
So who's area will be calculated.
See this function was called up on this one when I said r one.area in this line.
now when I'm saying.
r2.area then area function will be called up on this one so I get the answer as 150 so as I was
discussing in my previous video.
This is a design of fingerprint scanner.
Now we have two fingerprint scanners.
This is having its own functions and data, this is having its own functions and data.
If there's a plan of a house and its having rooms and living Hall another room so each house the two
houses then we have taken two a house each house is having its own data and functions.
rooms and  living Hall and everything.
So this is having its own and they both are same houses based on the same plan.
So there is one class and there are multiple objects you can create n number of objects.
So that's it.
I repeat the things once again.
See this is how we write a class.
We define data numbers and functions and we should make everything as public when you want to access
everything.
Then this is how an object is created objects are created inside the stack for this type class rectangle.
And who will occupy memory.
Only data members will occupy memory functions from not occupy any memory but the function works according
to the object.
So we feel as if each object is having its own set of functions.
So I have just extended I have shown the function also-dot operators  is used for accessing them
members of an object we can access data members also our member functions also both you can access
using dot operator. now next I will
Show you how it looks like in the Main memory so I remove the class and show you.
This is the main memory, and this is the code  section.
This is a stack and this is heap.
As the diagram that we are following.
See what is the function we are having, just main function.
Yes main function.
This is main function.
code then actually inside the class we are having two more functions.
area and perimeter, then where they will be, area and perimeter will also be present here.
How many times.
Only one time so all three functions are here.
Where is a class, class definition is not there just their functions are present here.
Functions are present here now when the main function start to objects are created inside the stack.
So r1 will have its own length and breadth, R2 will also have its own length & breadth and when r.length
when you said this no. is access ten and this is five.
Then when you said r2.length and r2.breadth then this is access 15 then 10 then.
when we said r1.area this line, this line.
when we said this one.
So this area function is called it over r1 and when we said this line r2.area then this area
function is called over r two objects so it will multiplied these two and  give the result. and this time it will multiply
these two and give the result.
So you can see that a class was having two data members and two functions.
So the data number for each object is separate inside the stack.
But the functions there is only one copy but depending on how you called it when you said r1.area
then this function is called upon r1.
When you said r2.area then this function is called upon r2.
That's it, these are the internal details of a memory.
The next video I will show you how to access an object using a pointer.